README

Project Name: Cinematic Insight Odyssey (Movie DB)

DATABASE User-Interface UI : https://c467-71-186-155-128.ngrok-free.app
 Team Name: Insight Illuminati
 Team Members (UBID):
	•	Pranav Polavarapu (pranavpo)
	•	Sai Keerthi Chelluri (schellur)
	•	Nikhil Raj Yammani (nyammani)



Database Source and Transformation Details:

The "Cinematic Insight Odyssey" is a relational database project that utilizes non-commercial datasets provided by IMDB. The data is updated daily and includes seven gzipped TSV files that encompass a wide range of movie-related information.



Source -> https://developer.imdb.com/non-commercial-datasets/

Source Files:
	•	name.basics.tsv.gz
	•	title.akas.tsv.gz
	•	title.basics.tsv.gz
	•	title.crew.tsv.gz
	•	title.episode.tsv.gz
	•	title.principals.tsv.gz
	•	title.ratings.tsv.gz

These 7 files have been pre-processed, transformed and structured into 11 relational tables using Python scripts. Each script is designed to convert the raw TSV data into a format that adheres to our schema requirements.

Schema/Tables: (stored as TSV Files - under TABLES DATA sub-directory)
	•	movies
	•	genre
	•	moviegenres
	•	people
	•	occupations
	•	castandcrew
	•	alternatetitles
	•	titlecrew
	•	episodes
	•	filmroles
	•	rating


INSTRUCTIONS TO RUN DataBase SCRIPTS:

• The database tables are created using the create.sql script.
• Data loading is performed using the load.sql script.
• These scripts use PostgreSQL commands to structure the database and bulk load data, ensuring consistency and efficiency.

1) Open the Cinematic-Insight DB Folder at terminal.
2) RUN psql -U postgres -d DatabaseName
3) Once you are connected to an existing DB, do:
	a) \i create.sql
	b) \i load.sql

NOTE: Running the LOAD.SQL file TAKES A WHILE, as the Data is VERY HUGE, and takes time to get LOADED.


